h1. Notable

A very simple "sinatra":http://www.sinatrarb.com/ application for taking notes and small snippets.  It provides an RSS feed of the notes and has a simple JSONapi for creating, retrieving and searching notes.  It uses "DataMapper":http://www.datamapper.org to talk to the backend datastore.  Also included is 'note_taker', a simple jabber bot which knows how to use the JSON api to talk to notable.

h2. Getting Started

h3. Notable

First, you'll be wanting some rubygems.  Obviously you'll be wanting sinatra (at
least 0.9.2), but also:

* dm-core
* dm-timestamps
* dm-serializer
* dm-validations
* dm-aggregates
* do_sqlite3 (Or other DataMapper adapter of your choice)
* haml

You'll also want a rack-aware webserver (I use "unicorn":http://unicorn.bogomips.org/ , but the webrick which comes with ruby should suit you fine to test).  Once you have this, getting started is easy:

<code>
cp config.ru.sample config.ru
rackup
</code>

notable should now be running on port 9292 on the local host.  It should also have created an sqlite3 database in the notable directory, called notes.db.  If you want to change the data-store notable connects to, change the @DATABASE_URL@ to any DataMapper understands.  To change aspects of how rackup serves the application, check out the options @rackup -h@ gives you.

h3. note_taker

If you also want to be able to talk to note_taker, the jabber bot, you'll need a few more gems:

* uppercut
* json
* rest_client
* daemons

note_taker takes a variety of options, which can be seen by running @note_taker -h@.  However for convinience one of those options, @-C@, reads in options from YAML formatted file.  There's an example file included in the repo, so:

<code>
cp note_taker.yml.sample note_taker.yml
# edit to set a correct JID and password.
# JIDs are formatted as user@example.com/resource
note_taker start -C note_taker.yml
</code>

And your jabber bot should start up.  If you change the port notable listens on, you'll need to make the corresponding change in the @url:@ (or @-u@ option).

h2. Licensing and Credit

h3. Icon

The icons used in notable are from the "silk":http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/ icon set by Mark James.  They are made available by him under the Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License


h3. License

The code for notable is released under the MIT license.

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Jonathan Stott

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

